---
layout: post
title: Minimalist Docking Station
---


My first laptops came with docking stations - hefty beasts you clip your laptop
into with USB, DVI, power, printer and possibly even RS-232 connectors.
Convenient at the desk but too bulky to travel with so it sits on my desk at
work and doesn't come home with me (or sits at home and ...)

My MacAir doesn't have an Apple approved docking station and, while there are
beautiful aluminium and white rubber third-party stations, they're still a bit
bulky to carry between home and work - especially relative to the 2.5 pound,
A4-paper size of the laptop itself.  So it looks like I really want two docking
stations.

Now, what features do I need?  My RS-232 peripherals have long since
disappeared into the great junk box in the sky (or, more accurately, my loft)
so most things connect with BlueTooth, WiFi or USB.  I also need a power cable
and a DVI connector.  Oh, and I'd like to save some desk space by standing it
upright when it is in clamshell mode.

Over the weekend, I decided that the easiest thing to do would be to just make
my own docking station.  I was able to obtain a length of extruded white PVC in
regulation Apple white into which I fashioned a slot to hold the base of the
laptop.  The PVC has been extruded in a circular pattern which echoes the near
circular shape of the Apple logo on the top of the laptop.  Minimalism being
the key to Apple accessories, I used a 50mm length which is just sufficient to
hold the laptop stably as long as the slot is a snug fit.  Finally, I padded
the parts which would contact the body of the laptop with some [Sugru].  If I
were an Apple purist, I would have used white - but I craved some primary
colours and used bright blue.  To keep the Sugru off the laptop while I worked,
I covered it in cling film (aka Saran wrap).

![Docking Station][Picture]

To use the docking station, you put the power cable and USB cable through the
dock (this is a one off installation effort) and place the laptop at a jaunty
angle in the slot.  Done!

If you want to make your own, you can get 40mm plumbing pipe from B&Q (Home
Depot) in convenient 2 metre lengths - enough for your whole family (assuming a
family of 10 each wanting 4 docking stations).  Or, if you have cats, you might
want to use a longer section of pipe to increase stability.

[Picture]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/docking-station.jpg
[Sugru]: http://sugru.com
